## Yale Financial Market Lesson 1 Notes

### Finance is about making things work.

To understand what this means, we must first consider two contradictory aspects of human nature. On one hand, we tend to be individualistic and self-interested—pursuing our own goals, making our own money, and seeking personal achievement. On the other hand, we inevitably depend on institutions and organizations to make those goals possible. Nothing significant in human history has ever been accomplished without the involvement of corporations and institutions. They are the pillars of civilization. Among them, financial institutions focuses on directing resources across time and space to their "best" use. This enables systems like logistics and engineering projects to function effectively.

Behavioral Finance is a key part of this course and is often described as a “revolution” in finance. It applies insights from psychology and sociology to financial decision-making, helping us understand how real people act in financial markets.

Regulation is another vital yet often underappreciated aspect of finance. 

Financial careers are among the occupations that are "less likely" to be replaced by computers. As of 2014, these roles are in high demand in the United States. However, there is significant income inequality in this industry.

###Finance is a technology that tends to attract a lot of money.

Due to this property, it attracts people from around the world. Developing countries are more interested in the financial technology of the States than in its foreign aid.

###Finance is neutral as a technology and can be used for both good or evil.

You can be successful in the financial industry and make a lot of money. You can also be an ethical person at the same time. Andrew Carnegie suggested that if anyone made a huge amount of wealth in the financial market, they should retire and become a philanthropist while they're still young, and focus on giving that money away. He believed that it's better for them than passing that money on to their children.
